---
c: Copyright (C) Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
Title: libcurl-easy
Section: 3
Source: libcurl
See-also:
  - curl_easy_cleanup (3)
  - curl_easy_init (3)
  - curl_easy_setopt (3)
  - libcurl (3)
  - libcurl-errors (3)
  - libcurl-multi (3)
Protocol:
  - All
Added-in: 7.1
---

# NAME

libcurl-easy - easy interface overview

# DESCRIPTION

When using libcurl's "easy" interface you init your session and get a handle
(often referred to as an "easy handle"), which you use as input to the easy
interface functions you use. Use curl_easy_init(3) to get the handle.

You continue by setting all the options you want in the upcoming transfer, the
most important among them is the URL itself (you cannot transfer anything
without a specified URL). You might want to set some callbacks as well that
are called from the library when data is available etc. For example
CURLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION(3). curl_easy_setopt(3) is used for all this.

CURLOPT_URL(3) is the only option you really must set, as otherwise there can
be no transfer. Another commonly used option is CURLOPT_VERBOSE(3) that helps
you see what libcurl is doing under the hood, which is useful when debugging
for example. The curl_easy_setopt(3) man page has a full index of the over 300
available options.

If you at any point would like to blank all previously set options for a
single easy handle, you can call curl_easy_reset(3) and you can also make a
clone of an easy handle (with all its set options) using
curl_easy_duphandle(3).

When all is setup, you tell libcurl to perform the transfer using
curl_easy_perform(3). It performs the entire transfer operation and does not
return until it is done (successfully or not).

After the transfer has been made, you can set new options and make another
transfer, or if you are done, cleanup the session by calling
curl_easy_cleanup(3). If you want persistent connections, you do not cleanup
immediately, but instead run ahead and perform other transfers using the same
easy handle.
